you can choose a favourite character and set some game mechanics like
Running, jumping, object destruction, obstacle crossing, treasure hunting, 
driving, shooting, etc.

you can think of a game space according to your game mechanics. 
For example, a swimming game may require water as the background, 
car and bike games may require road and scenery as the background. 
Space games require the sky as the background.Also, we can set the 
look and feel of a game using sound and lighting, etc.

pick on a favourite character and in every game story, the main character has to 
overcome some obstacles. Identify the main obstacle here in your game, 
which the character is trying to overcome it.

you can choose a character and motivate it by setting scores and 
the score should increase as the player plays.
you can also introduce rules to make the player lose or win.
eg:the score should increase by either running or jumping and the player loses 
the game if the player doesn't land on the bridges.

you can select balloon as a player character and nails as obstacles.
you can score some points as long as it moves above!

you can select a hunter as a player character and spawn zombies.
player character can shoot the zombies and you can increase points.
game ends when the zombies touch the hunter!

if you are interested with physics engine games you can create
a moon lander game. start with adding images and background of space theme. 
To land the moon lander on the moon, we will need to introduce the gravity factor.
Gravity is different on different planets as their masses are different. 
So, a heavier planet will have more gravity and will require more velocity for the rocket to escape.
Let's understand with examples how the gravity effects can be different for different planets. 
An astronaut can jump to different heights on different planets and satellites as per gravity. 
Moon has less gravity hence Astronaut can jump higher while Mars has comparatively more gravity.
Jupiter has almost 21 times more gravity than moon and hence astronaut is hardly able to jump.
you can code to control the lander's motion. 
The rocket can be controlled by the arrow keys.The rocket is 
given upward thrust by the UP arrow key.you can add some obstacles like meteors and asteroids.




